''the twelue tribes, and al vulgar men de{{s}}irous and beginning to {{s}}erue God. In both bookes, for more auctoritie {{s}}ake, making mention of his godlie renow- med father the Royal Prophet Dauid, with his owne title al{{s}}o of king. But''{{left sidenote|Idida, Beloued.}}''in this third booke he only expre{{ss}}eth his proper name Salomon, whom God {{s}}ingularly loued, wherof he was called Idida. Becau{{s}}e this alone, without mention of father or king, was mo{{s}}t conuenient for the'' Perfect, ''who not as {{s}}eruants, or yong {{s}}cholars are moued by feare of auctoritie, but as children are {{s}}wetly drawne by loue.''{{left sidenote|This Canticle doth excel other Canticles}}''And this he writte in ver{{s}}e, intitling it not {{s}}imply a Canticle, but'' The Canticle of Canticles, ''as preeminent aboue other Canticles. The bridal {{s}}ongue for the Mariage, to be {{s}}olemnized betwen God him{{s}}elf and his glorious {{s}}pou{{s}}e. For though al holie Scriptures are the''{{left sidenote|Al are note mete to read it.}}''{{s}}piritual bread, and food of the faithful, yet al are not meate for al, at al {{s}}ea{{s}}ons. Some parts are not for {{s}}inners, nor for beginners, nor for {{s}}uch as are yet in the way towards perfection, but only for the perfect. According to'' {{right sidenote|Heb. 5}}''the Apo{{s}}tles doctrine:'' Milke is for children, that are yet vnskilful of the word of iu{{s}}tice. But {{s}}trong meate is for the perfect, them that by cu{{s}}tom, haue their {{s}}en{{s}}es exerci{{s}}ed to the di{{s}}cerning of good and euil. ''With what moderation therfore, and humilitie, this Canticle of Gods perfect {{s}}pou{{s}}e may be read, the di{{s}}crete wil con{{s}}ider, and net pre{{s}}ume aboue their reach, but be wi{{s}}e with {{s}}obrietie. For here be very high and hidden My{{s}}teries, as Origen teacheth in his lerned Commentaries (which S. Ierom tran{{s}}lated into Latin, and {{s}}ingularly commendeth) and {{s}}o much harder to be rightly under{{s}}tood, for that the feruent {{s}}piritual loue, of the inward man, reformed in {{s}}oule, and perfected in {{s}}pirite, is here vttered in the {{s}}ame v{{s}}ual wordes and termes, wherwith, natural, worldlie, yea and carnal loue of the outward man, old Adam, corrupted by {{s}}inne, is commonly expre{{ss}}ed: and are {{s}}o much more dangerous to be mi{{s}}taken, as we are more addicted to proper wil, & priuate iudgement, or {{s}}ubiect to carnal, or pa{{ss}}ionate motions. ''{{left sidenote| Be{{s}}t methode in learning is to beginne with doctrine of good life, the {{s}}tudie to know natural thinges: and finally contemplate diuine my{{s}}teries}}''Wherfore it {{s}}emeth mo{{s}}t mete to kepe the {{s}}ame order in reading the{{s}}e three bookes, which the auctor wi{{s}}e Salomon ob{{s}}erued in writing them. And which Philo{{s}}ophers al{{s}}o folow in their forme of di{{s}}cipline. For they fir{{s}}t lerne and teach Moral Philo{{s}}ophie, then Nataral; & la{{s}}tly Metaphi{{s}}ikes which is their Diuinitie. As Salomon had geuen them example: {{s}}ir{{s}}t teaching'' precepts of good ''life, and maners,'' in ''his'' Prouerbes: ''after, di{{s}}cour{{s}}ing of natural thinges'' in Eccle{{s}}ia{{s}}tes, ''deduced thence a conclu{{s}}ion, which prophane Philo{{s}}ophers wel under{{s}}tood not,'' to contemne this world: ''and finally cometh to high my{{s}}tical Diuinitie, in thts {{s}}upereminent''Canticle: written ''in an other {{s}}tile,'' in ver{{s}}e, ''and'' in forme of a {{s}}acred{{left sidenote|A {{s}}acred, disalogue or Enterlude.}}Dialogue ''betwen Chri{{s}}t and his {{s}}pou{{s}}e: or as Origen calleth it, in forme of an'' * Enterlude, ''in re{{s}}pect of diuers {{s}}peakers & actors, & of diuers per{{s}}ons,'' {{right sidenote|* Forma dramatis}}''to whom the {{s}}peaches are directed, and of whom they are uttered. For'' by
