the Spous or Bridegrome, {{right sidenote|God & Chri{{s}}t the Spous, or Bridgrome}}''is not only vnder{{s}}tood Chri{{s}}t as Man, but al{{s}}o as God, and the whole Ble{{ss}}ed Trinitie; to whom manie prayers, prai{{s}}es, and thankes are offered vp; and by whom manie benefites are geuen, prai{{s}}es returned, & promi{{s}}es made to his {{s}}pou{{s}}e,'' {{right sidenote|Three {{s}}pou{{s}}es}} ''Likewi{{s}}e by the'' Spou{{s}}e ''or'' Bride, ''the ancient fathers understand three {{s}}ortes of {{s}}pou{{s}}es: al e{{s}}pou{{s}}ed to Chri{{s}}t, and to God. towitt, his'' General Spou{{s}}e, {{right sidenote|The General.}}''the whole Church of the old and new Te{{s}}taments; {{left sidenote|Ephe{{s}}. 5}}of al that are, and shal be perfect, making one mystical bodie, free from {{s}}inne, without {{s}}potte, or wrinkle, {{s}}anctified in Chri{{s}}t.'' {{right sidenote|The {{s}}pecial. and Singular.}}''Al{{s}}o his {{s}}pecial {{s}}pou{{s}}e, which is euerie particular holie {{s}}oule. And his {{s}}ingular spou{{s}}e, his mo{{s}}t ble{{ss}}ed & mo{{s}}t immaculate Virgin Mother. This being the general {{s}}umme of this excellent Canticle, remitting the reader, {{left sidenote|Origen.<br>S. Ierom.<br>S. Aug.<br>lib. 8. de<br>Gen. adli.<br>S. Greg.<br>S. Bede.<br>S. Tho.<br>Arbor.<br>Geneb<br>Del Rio<br>}} for explication therof to the lerned deuout Commenters, both of ancient and late writers, we shal al{{s}}o eneuous to gether the {{s}}ame contents more particularly, not before the chapters, becau{{s}}e we can not there {{s}}o conueniently di{{s}}tinguish the {{s}}ame by ver{{s}}es, but in the margent.'' {{right sidenote|The particular contents are {{s}}ette in the margent of euerie chapter}} ''Where we shal e{{s}}pecially note the speakers, as {{s}}emeth more probable of euerie parcel, according to the fir{{s}}t {{s}}en{{s}}e (not hauing rowme for more) perteyning to the General spou{{s}}e, the Catholique Church: which is the great, and euerlasting holie Citie of God the eternal King.''

{{rule}}
{{xxx-larger|{{center|{{uc|Salamons}}

{{verseline|1|1}}{{center|{{uc|Canticle of Canticles}}}}}}}}
{{xx-larger block|{{center|{{uc|Which in Hebrew is called}}}}}}
{{x-larger block|{{center|{{uc|Sir Hasirim}}}}}}
<br>
{{x-larger block{{center|{{sc|Chap. I}}}}}}
<br>
{{verseline|1|2}}{{di|L}}{{sc|Et}} ''a'' {{right sidenote|''a'' The Church of the old te{{s}}tament de{{s}}ireth Chri{{s}}ts coming in the fle{{s}}h: and the Chri{{s}}tian Church prayeth for his coming in glorie}} him ki{{ss}} me with the ki{{ss}}e of his mouth: becau{{s}}e thy bre{{s}}tes are better then wine, {{verseline|1|3}}† {{s}}melling fragrantly of the be{{s}}t ointments. Oile powred out is thy name: therfore haue yongmaydes loued thee. {{verseline|1|4}}† Draw me: we wil runne after thee in the odour of thine ointments. The king hath brought me into his cellars: we wil reioyce & be glad in thee, mindful of thy bre{{s}}ts aboue wine: the righteous loue thee. {{verseline|1|5}}† ''b'' {{right sidenote|''b'' The Church outwardly afllicted, is inwardly fayre.}} I am blacke but beutiful, (edit o with circumflex) ye daughters of Ieru{{s}}alem, as the tabernacles of Cedar, as the skinnes of Salomon_. {{verseline|1|6}}† Doe not con{{s}}ider me that I am browne, becau{{s}}e the {{s}}unne hath altered my colour: the {{s}}onnes of my mother haue fought again{{s}}t me, they haue made me a_
