keeper in the vinyards: my vinyard I haue not kept. {{verseline|1|7}}† Shew me ô thou, whom my {{s}}oule loueth, where thou feede{{s}}t, where thou lye{{s}}t in the midday, le{{s}}t I beginne to wander after the flockes of thy companyons. {{verseline|1|8}}† ''c'' {{outside L|''c'' Chri{{s}}t encorageth his {{s}}pou{{s}}e the Church.}} If thou know not thy{{s}}elfe, ô mo{{s}}t fayre{{s}}t among wemen, goeforth, and folow after the {{s}}teppes of the flockes, and feede thy kiddes by{{s}}ide the tabernacles of the pa{{s}}tours. {{verseline|1|9}}† To my companie of hor{{s}}emen, in the chariotes of Pharao, haue I likened thee, ô my loue. {{verseline|1|10}}† Thy cheekes are beautiful as the turteldoues, thy necke as iewels. {{verseline|1|11}}† We wil make thee cheynes of gold, enamoled with {{s}}iluer. {{verseline|1|12}}† ''d'' {{outside L|''d'' She meditateth of his Pa{{ss}}ion, and Re{{s}}urrection}} Whiles the king was at his repo{{s}}e, my {{s}}pikenard gaue the odour thereof. {{verseline|1|13}}† A bundle of myrrhe my beloued is to me, he shal abide betwen my bre{{s}}ts. {{verseline|1|14}}† A clu{{s}}tre of cypre my loue is to me, in the vineyardes of Engaddi. {{verseline|1|15}}† ''e'' {{outside L|''e'' Chri{{s}}t prai{{s}}eth his {{s}}pou{{s}}e}} Behold thou art fayre, ô my loue, behold thou art fayre, thyne eyes are as of doues. {{verseline|1|16}}† ''f'' {{outside L|''f'' She againe prai{{s}}eth him,}} Behold thou art fayre my beloued, & comlie: ''g'' {{outside L|''g'' VVith thankes for her repo{{s}}e, and re{{s}}ent con{{s}}olation.}} our litle bed is florishing. {{verseline|1|17}}† The beames of our hou{{s}}es are of cedar, our rafters of cypre{{ss}}e trees.
<br>
{{x-larger block|{{center|{{sc|Chap. II.}}}}}}
<br>
{{verseline|2|1}}{{di|I}} {{sc|Am}} ''a'' {{outside L|''a'' Chri{{s}}t profe{{ss}}eth him{{s}}elf the floure of mankinde: yea Lord of al creatures.}} the flower of the filde, and the lilie of the valley. {{verseline|2|2}}† ''b'' {{outside L|''b'' The Church excelleth al other {{s}}ocieties: In the Church the godlie excel {{s}}inners, <br>Among the innocent and holie, the virgin Marie {{s}}urpa{{ss}}eth al.}} As the lilie among the thornes, {{s}}o is my loue among the daughters. {{verseline|2|3}}† ''c'' {{outside L|''c'' The Church prai{{s}}ing Chri{{s}}t re{{s}}teth {{s}}ecure vnder his protectio}} As the apletree among trees of the woddes, {{s}}o is my beloued among the {{s}}onnes. Vnder his shadow, whom I de{{s}}ired, I {{s}}ate: and his fruite was {{s}}weete vnto my throte. {{verseline|2|4}}† He brought me into the wineceller, he hath ordered in me charitie. {{verseline|2|5}}† Stay me vp with flowers, compa{{ss}}e me about with apples: becau{{s}}e I languish with loue. {{verseline|2|6}}† His lefthand vnder my head, and his righthand shal embrace me. {{verseline|2|7}}† I adiure you ô daughters of Ieru{{s}}alem, by the roes, and the hartes of the fildes, ''d'' {{outside L|''d'' He for the weakes sake permitteth her not to be mole{{s}}ted, til {{s}}he be prepared to {{s}}uffer vvith patience}} that you ray{{s}}e not, nor make the beloued to awake, vntil her{{s}}elfe wil. {{verseline|2|8}}† ''e'' {{outside RL|''e'' She feeling Chri{{s}}ts a{{ss}}i{{s}}tance, confe{{ss}}eth, & preacheth boldely his Go{{s}}pel, & truth again{{s}}t al Paganes, and Heretikes.}} The voice of my beloued, behold he cometh leaping in the mountaines, leaping ouer the little hilles: {{verseline|2|9}}† my beloued is like vnto a roe, and to a fawne of harres. Behold he {{s}}tandeth behind our walle, ''f'' {{outside RL|''f'' VVho though he {{s}}hew not him{{s}}elf vi{{s}}ibly}} looking through the windowes, looking forth by the grates. {{verseline|2|10}}† Behold my beloued {{s}}peaketh to me: ''g'' {{outside RL|''g'' Yet encorageth her to approch vnto him}} Ari{{s}}e, make ha{{s}}t my loue, my doue, beautiful one, and come. {{verseline|2|11}}† For winter is not pa{{s}}t, the rayne is gone, and departed. {{verseline|2|12}}† The flowers haue appeared in our land, the time of pruning is come: the voice of the turteldoue is heard in our land: {{verseline|2|13}}† the figgetree hath brought
