forth her greene figges: the florishing vineyards haue geuen their {{s}}auour. Ari{{s}}e my loue, my beautiful one, & come. {{verseline|2|14}}† My doue in the holes of the rocke, in the holow places of the wal, shew me thy face, let thy voice {{s}}ound in mine eares: for thy voice is {{s}}weete, and thy face comely. {{verseline|2|15}}† ''h'' Catch vs the litle foxes, that de{{s}}troy the vineyards: for our vineyard hath florished. {{verseline|2|17}}† ''i'' til the day breake, and the shadowes decline. Returne: belike, my beloued, to a roe, and to the fawne of hartes vpon the mountaynes of Bether.

{{x-larger block{{center|{{sc|Chap. III}}}}}}

{{verseline|3|1}}{{verseline||1}}{{di|I}}{{sc|N}} ''a'' {{outside RL|''a'' The Church finding Chri{{s}}t not in darke ignorance nor in philo{{s}}ophie but byb his reueiling him {{s}}elfe to her, holdeth him for euer:}} my litle bed in the nightes I haue {{s}}ought him, whom my {{s}}oule loueth, I haue {{s}}aught him, and haue not found. {{verseline|3|2}}† I wil ri{{s}}e, and wil goe about the citie: by the {{s}}tretes and high waies, I wil {{s}}eeke him whom my {{s}}oule loueth: I haue {{s}}aught him, and haue not found. {{verseline|3|3}}† The watchmen which kepe the citie found me; Haue you {{s}}eene him, whom my {{s}}oule loueth. {{verseline|3|4}}† When I had a litle pa{{ss}}ed by them, I found him_, whom my {{s}}oule loueth: I held him: neither wil I let him goe, til I bring him into ''b'' {{outside RL|''b'' euen til the Iewes {{s}}hal at la{{s}}t al{{s}}o find him.}} my mothers hou{{s}}e, and into the chamber of her that bare me. {{verseline|3|5}}† ''c'' {{outside RL|''c'' Chri{{s}}t {{s}}peaketh as before ch 2. v. 7}} I adiure you ô daughters of Ieru{{s}}alem by the roes, and hartes of the fildes, that you ray{{s}}e not vp, nor make the beloued to awake, til her{{s}}elfe wil. {{verseline|3|6}}† ''d'' {{outside RL|''d'' The Church of Chri{{s}}t admireth her owne conuer{{s}}ion from Gentilitie,}} What is she, that a{{s}}cendeth by the de{{s}}ert, as a litle rod of {{s}}moke of ''e'' {{outside RL|''e'' now ful of good workes.}} the aromatical {{s}}pices of myrtrhe, and frankincen{{s}}e, & of al powder of the apothecharie? {{verseline|3|7}}† ''f'' {{outside RL|''f'' She al{{s}}o profe{{ss}}eth that the a{{s}}cending to eternal re{{s}}t, is by fighting manfully, in ob{{s}}eruing the ten commandments, in the {{s}}ix dayes of this life:}} Behold three{{s}}core valiants of the mo{{s}}t valiant of I{{s}}rael, compa{{ss}}e the litle bed of Salomon: {{verseline|3|8}}† al holding {{s}}wordes, and mo{{s}}t cunning to battels: euerie mans {{s}}word vpon his thigh for feares by night. {{verseline|3|9}}† King Salomon hath made him a portable throne of the wood of Libanus: {{verseline|3|10}}† the pillers therof he hath made of {{s}}iluer, the {{s}}eate of gold, going vp ''g'' {{outside RL|''g'' euen to bloud, if nede be,}} of purple: the middes he hath paued with ''h'' {{outside RL|''h'' which is the highe{{s}}t degree of charitie.}} charitie for the daughters of Ieru{{s}}alem. {{verseline|3|11}}† ''i'' {{outside RL|''i'' And inuiteth al others to come vnto Chri{{s}}t,}} Goe forth ye daughters o{{s}} Sion, and {{s}}ee king Salomon in ''k'' {{outside RL|''k'' who in fle{{s}}h which he tooke of his mother, was crowned in heauen after his Pa{{ss}}ion.}} the diademe, wherewith his mother hath crowned him in the day of his de{{s}}pou{{s}}ing, and in the day of the ioy of his heart.

{{nop}} 
