{{x-larger block|{{center|{{sc|Chap. IIII.}}}}}}

{{verseline|4|1}}{{di|H}}{{sc|Ow}} ''a'' {{outside L|''a'' Chri{{s}}t againe prai{{s}}eth the beautie of his Church.}} beautiful art thou my loue, how beautiful art thou! thine ''b'' {{outside L|''b'' Sincere and {{s}}imple intention}} eies as it were of doues, be{{s}}ides that, which lyeth hid within. Thy ''c'' {{outside L|''c'' Al her temporal occupations directed to Gods glorie}} heares as the flockes of goates, which haue come vp from mount Galaad. {{verseline|4|2}}† Thy ''d'' {{outside L|''d'' Pa{{s}}tors who like nurces geue bread of good doctrine to litle ones.}} teeth as flockes of them that are shorne, which haue come vp from the lauatorie, al with ''e'' {{outside L|''e'' Faith and good workes.}} twinnes, and there is no barren among them. {{verseline|4|3}}† Thy ''f'' {{outside L|''f'' Preaching Chri{{s}}ts pa{{ss}}ion.}} lippes as a {{s}}carlet lace: and thy {{s}}peach {{s}}weete. As à peece of a pomegranate, {{s}}o are al{{s}}o thy ''g'' {{outside L|''g'' And not a{{s}}hamed to profe{{ss}}e Chri{{s}}t Crucified.}} cheekes, be{{s}}ides that which lyeth hid within. {{verseline|4|4}}† Thy ''h'' {{outside L|''h'' Admini{{s}}tration of Sacraments wherby the Church, Chri{{s}}ts my{{s}}tical bodie, is ioyned to him her head,}} necke is as the ''i'' {{outside L|''i'' which is an inexpugnable fortre{{ss}}e.}} towre of Dauid, which is built with bulworkes: a thou{{s}}and targattes hang on it, al the armour of the valiants. {{verseline|4|5}}† Thy ''k'' {{outside L|''k'' Both Iewes and Gentiles are fed with the principles of Chri{{s}}tian doctrin.}} two brea{{s}}tes as two fawnes the twinnes of a roe, which feede among the lilies, {{verseline|4|6}}† til the day a{{s}}pire, and the shadowes decline. ''l'' {{outside L|''l'' Chri{{s}}t dwelleth in mortified, and deuout mindes.}} I wil goe to the mount of myrrhe, and to the little hil of frankencen{{s}}e. {{verseline|4|7}}† Thou art al fayre ô my loue, and there is ''m'' {{outside L|''m'' The Church triumphant is without {{s}}potte, and euerie particular {{s}}oule entring into heauen; the B. virgin mother was al{{s}}o in this life alwayes immaculate.}} not a {{s}}potte in thee. {{verseline|4|8}}† Come from Libanus, come: thou shalt be crowned from the head of Amena, from the toppe of Sanir & Hermon, from the dennes of lions, from the mountaynes of leopardes. {{verseline|4|9}}† Thou ha{{s}}t wounded my heart, my {{s}}i{{s}}ter {{s}}pou{{s}}e, thou ha{{s}}t wounded my heart in one of thine eies, and in one heare of thy necke. {{verseline|4|10}}† How beautiful are thy brea{{s}}tes my {{s}}i{{s}}ter {{s}}pou{{s}}e! thy brea{{s}}tes are more beautiful then wine, and the odour of thine ointmentes aboue al aromatical {{s}}pices. {{verseline|4|11}}† Thy lippes my {{s}}pou{{s}}e are as an honie combe di{{s}}tilling, honie and mile kare vnder thy tongue: and the odour of thy garments as the odour of frankincen{{s}}e. {{verseline|4|12}}† My {{s}}i{{s}}ter {{s}}pou{{s}}e is a garden inclo{{s}}ed, a garden inclo{{s}}ed, a fountaine {{s}}ealed vp. {{verseline|4|13}}† Thy of{{s}}prings a paradi{{s}}e of pomegranats with orchard fruites. Cypres with {{s}}piknard, {{verseline|4|14}}† {{s}}piknard, and {{s}}afren, {{s}}weete cane and cinnamon, with al the trees of Libanus, myrrhe and aloes with al the chiefe ointmentes. {{verseline|4|15}}† The fountaine of gardens: the wel of liuing waters, which runne with violence from Libanus. {{verseline|4|16}}† ''n'' {{outside L|''n'' Al tentations, whether they be in manife{{s}}t crueltie, or in flatering {{s}}uteltie, make con{{s}}tant {{s}}oules more gratful to God.}} Ari{{s}}e Northwinde, & come Southwinde, blow through my garden, and let the aromatical {{s}}pices therof flowe.
{{nop}}
